# Carbon.txt crawler

# Purpose

This project uses Apache StormCrawler to measure the adoption of the [carbon.txt protocol](https://carbontxt.org).
It takes as a starting point a list of hostnames and generates candidate URLs that are then fetched and verified as being valid carbon.txt files.
OpenSearch is used for storing the URL Frontier and the metrics generated by the crawler.
Apache StormCrawler runs on an Apache Storm crawler. Please go to the [Apache StormCrawler](https://stormcrawler.apache.org) website for more information.

# Prerequisites

- **Java 17**
- **Maven** 3.x
- **Docker** and **Docker Compose**

We provide a `docker-compose.yaml` file to launch OpenSearch, Zookeeper, Storm Nimbus, Storm Supervisor, and the Storm UI.


# Compilation

First generate an uberjar:

``` sh
mvn clean package
```

This packages the StormCrawler code and resources that are then deployed on the Apache Storm cluster. 

# Start Docker containers

``` sh
 export OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD=This1sAPassw0rd!
 docker compose up -d
```

then once everything is up and running call

```
 dashboards/importDashboards.sh
```

This populates the OpenSearch Dashboard running on http://localhost:5601/. When connecting for the first time, you might need to enter the 
`OPENSEARCH_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD` specified above.

Check that the Storm UI is up and running on http://localhost:8080/.

**NOTE** the OpenSearch setup is not configured to be secure, do not use it as-is for other purposes.

# Hostnames

We get the list of hostnames to process from the [CommonCrawl Foundation](https://commoncrawl.org). They maintain a list of the most popular hostnames from their graphs,
see https://data.commoncrawl.org/projects/hyperlinkgraph/cc-main-2026-mar-apr-may/index.html.

First retrieve the full list of sorted hostnames with 

`curl -O https://data.commoncrawl.org/projects/hyperlinkgraph/cc-main-2026-mar-apr-may/host/cc-main-2026-mar-apr-may-host-ranks.txt.gz`

The entries are reversed e.g. `com.facebook.www`.

The following command will keep the top 10M hostnames, normalise the entries and get them ready for injection.

```
zcat cc-main-2026-mar-apr-may-host-ranks.txt.gz |  head -n 10000000 | cut -f5 | awk -F. '{for (i=NF; i>0; i--) printf "%s%s", $i, (i>1 ? "." : "\n")}' | gzip > hostnames.gz
```

# URL injection

The next step consists in populating the `status` index in OpenSearch; it is used by StormCrawler to store the information it has about the URLs and their metadata. 
For each hostname in the file generated above, the injection topology puts 2 URLs in the status index.

```
xxx/carbon.txt
xxx/.well-known/carbon.txt
```

To start the injection, we need to create a temporary container to join the services managed by our docker-compose file in their network. It loads the JAR and additional resources 
and sends them to the Storm cluster.

```
export NETWORK=carbontxt-crawler_default
                                                                        
docker run --network $NETWORK -it --rm \
  -v "$(pwd)/crawler-conf.yaml:/apache-storm/crawler-conf.yaml" \
  -v "$(pwd)/opensearch-conf.yaml:/apache-storm/opensearch-conf.yaml" \
  -v "$(pwd)/injection.flux:/apache-storm/injection.flux" \
  -v "$(pwd)/target/carbontxt-crawler-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar:/apache-storm/carbontxt-crawler-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar" \
  storm:2.8.8 storm jar carbontxt-crawler-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar \
  org.apache.storm.flux.Flux injection.flux
```

This container terminates as soon as the topology has been submitted to the Storm cluster. The topology itself runs on the Storm cluster and needs to be terminated explicitly.

You can list the topologies currently running with

```
docker run --network $NETWORK --rm storm:2.8.8 storm list
```

and kill one with 

```
docker run --network $NETWORK --rm storm:2.8.8 storm kill crawler -w 0
```

To see whether the injection has finished, you can use the Storm UI at [http://localhost:8080], query OpenSearch for the number of documents in the [status index](http://localhost:9200/status/_count?)
or look at the [OpenSearch dashboard](http://localhost:5601).

Remember: there should be 2 URLs injected per hostname.

# Running the crawl

The crawl fetches the URLs that have been injected by the previous step and checks whether they are valid carbon.txt files. If so, they are indexed in a separate index called `content`.
In addition, the crawl topology checks the http headers and DNS records for pointers to carbon.txt files. If the values found are valid URLs, these are added to the `status` index, however if they are
hostnames, we generate 2 candidates URLs for them, just like in the injection step.

The crawl is triggered like so:


```bash
export NETWORK=carbontxt-crawler_default

docker run --network $NETWORK -it --rm \
  -v "$(pwd)/crawler-conf.yaml:/apache-storm/crawler-conf.yaml" \
  -v "$(pwd)/opensearch-conf.yaml:/apache-storm/opensearch-conf.yaml" \
  -v "$(pwd)/crawler.flux:/apache-storm/crawler.flux" \
  -v "$(pwd)/target/carbontxt-crawler-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar:/apache-storm/carbontxt-crawler-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar" \
  storm:2.8.8 storm jar carbontxt-crawler-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar \
  org.apache.storm.flux.Flux crawler.flux
```

The [Storm UI](http://localhost:8080) can be used in combination with the [Metrics dashboard](http://localhost:5601/app/dashboards#/view/Crawl-metrics) to monitor the progress of the crawl.


The crawl keeps track of the method used to find the carbon.txt file (`root`, `well-known`,`dns`,`http`), in the event where a URL is found via more than one path, only the first one is tracked.

**NOTE**

Due to the large number of hostnames and the fact that the crawl queries for DNS records, it is important to use a fast and reliable DNS server (i.e. probably not the one from your internet provider).

Google DNS (`8.8.8.8` and `8.8.4.4`) are free, robust and quite fast.

### Index reset

The script `OS_IndexInit.sh` can be used to wipe out the OpenSearch indices.

# NDJSON export

The script `./export_content.sh` extracts the carbon.txt files found during the crawl and exports it as a ndjson file called `carbontxt.ndjson`.

The content of the carbon.txt files are represented in Base64.


